---

layout: assignments
title: "Assignment #5"
due-date: Oct 23 
topic: Vector Graphics
live: false

---

## Vector Graphics
In this assignment, you will create a logo for your i6 home page in SVG format.

<div class="section-break"><br></div>

### Scalable Vector Graphic
Using a text editor, code a scalable vector graphic into your assignments page on i6. This could be a logo, a symbol, or an icon for the page. Your image should include at least three drawing elements, such as `<circle>`, `<rect>`, `<polygon>`, `<line>`, or `<path>`. You should also include your initials in the graphic using the `<text>` element.

Next, embed at least two links into your SVG code. The links should originate from different parts of the image. The destination of these links is up to you.

Finally, style the image with CSS. Your CSS should be coded into the stylesheet of your assignments page and include hover and active link states. Your vector graphic should have a level of complexity that demonstrates thoughtful exploration of SVG capability.

<div class="section-break"><br></div>

### Publishing Your Image
Code the image directly into the HTML of your i6 home page (assignments directory). Use the `<svg>` element to display your vector graphic on the page. For accessibility, add a `<title>` element as the first child of your SVG element with a description of the image.

Publish the web page along with your image to the i6 server. Your project should be available at: i6.cims.nyu.edu/~netid/. Update the code of your assignments directory to link to the (same) page.

<div class="section-break"><br></div>

### Submitting Your Assignment
Submit the following via [NYU Brightspace]({{ site.brightspace }}). 

- The URL to your web page that displays the SVG image on i6
- A compressed archive of your website files (including the HTML with SVG and CSS)  

Please note that you are required to submit files along with the URL in order to receive credit for your work.

<div class="section-break"><br></div>

### Grading
This assignment is worth 10 points.

- An original vector graphic with at least three SVG drawing elements (3 points)
- There should be an SVG `<text>` element with the student’s initials (1 point)
- There should be at least two links embedded in the SVG, from different parts of the image (2 points)
- The SVG should be styled with CSS in the web page’s stylesheet; styles should include hover and active link states (3 points)
- The SVG logo should be coded into the home page of the student’s i6 account with the `<svg>` element and, for accessibility, the `<title>` element (1 point)